# Hello World

How do we Hello World?

```ruby
puts "Hello World"
```

## What kind of language is Ruby?

From first glance, there is indentation, just like in Python to indicate blocks/boundaries. But there also seems to be an `end` which is used to demarcate blocks. 

No semicolons or types found. Yet.

Ruby is an object oriented language for sure. 

> everything appears to Ruby as an object. Every value in Ruby is an object, even the most primitive things: strings, numbers and even true and false. Even a class itself is an object that is an instance of the Class class.

Well, that looks common to JavaScript.

## Online Compiler 

Tried out [repl.it](https://repl.it/languages/ruby) and looks promising.

## Installation

MacOS and linux installations comes preinstalled with ruby. But it is better to use `rbenv` (or something similar) so that we have explicit control over the version we want to run.

[rbenv Installation](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv)

## File Extension

Files end with `.rb`

## Comments

1. Single Line Comments

Single line comments start with #

2. Multi line comments

Starts with `=begin` and ends with `=end`

```ruby
# Single line comment
=begin
Comment
spread across
multiple lines
=end
```

## External Packages

Ruby calls these **gems**. They are centrally hosted at rubygems.org. 

But unlike `npm`, `gem` (like `pip` I guess) installs these dependencies at a global level. You can use a package manager named `bundler` that can manage the dependencies for you at the local project level.

You can install bundler with:

```
gem install bundler
```

Like `package.json`, Ruby has a `Gemfile` which lists the dependencies installed (just that!).

You can install all dependencies in the Gemfile with:

```
bundle install
```

> There is also a Gemfile.lock as in package.lock.json or yarn.lock.