# Functions

Almost everything in Ruby is an object.

Because everything is an object, there are no functions. Just Methods.

It usually starts with a `def` and ends with `end`

```ruby
def add(a, b)
  a+b
end

add 1,2 
```

Notice that we did not have to explicitly return a value, the last expression returned the value itself.

## Blocks

* Enclosed with `do / end` or `{ / }`.
* Arguments enclosed within `||`

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].each { |num| puts num }
# OR
[1, 2, 3].each do |num|
  puts num
end
```

> So these look like anonymous arrow functions or lambdas 🤔

### Using a Block

Where you use the `yield` will be substituted for the block _passed into_ the function. (kind of like `children` in React or `slot` in VueJS, I guess)

```ruby
def print_once
  yield
end
print_once do 
  puts "Hello world"
end
```

**Arguments**:

```
def print_once
  yield 1
end
print_once do |num|
  puts "Hello world #{num}"
end
```

You can also `yield` multiple times in the same method making the block execute multiple times.

You can choose to give the block a name by:

```ruby
def explicit_block(&block)
  block.call # same as yield
end
explicit_block { puts "Explicit block called" }
```

## Lambda

> Looks like somebody did not like using `def`

```ruby
print_once =-> (thing) { puts "Print this once #{thing}" }
print_once.call(1)
```
* Returns the last expression like a normal function
* Using `return` returns from the lambda and passed this value to the execution function to continue execution.
* Throws error if arguments are not passed to it.

## Proc

```ruby
print_once = Proc.new { |thing| puts "Print this once #{thing}" }

print_once.call(1)
```

* The syntax for arguments has changed from that of lambda, this is now a block rather than a function. *Lambda is a Proc that looks like a function?*
* If you use a `return` inside a Proc, it returns the value in behalf of the calling function. In case of a lambda, it would have returned the value to the calling function.
* A proc does not throw an error if there are no arguments, they are just set to `nil`


Must Read/Watch:

* [Blocks, Procs, Lambdas - Ruby Guides](https://www.rubyguides.com/2016/02/ruby-procs-and-lambdas/)